and Jethro the priest of Midian Moses
father-in-law heard of all that God had
done for Moses and for Israel his people
that the Lord had brought Israel out of
Egypt then Jethro Moses father-in-law
took sapota
Moses wife after he had sent her back
with her two sons of whom the name of
one was Gershom for Moses said I have
been a stranger in a foreign land and
the name of the other was Allah Issa for
he said the God of my father was my help
and delivered me from the sword of
Pharaoh and Jethro Moses father-in-law
came with his sons and his wife to Moses
in the wilderness where he was encamped
at the mountain of God now he had said
to Moses hi your father-in-law Jethro I
am coming to you with your wife her two
sons with him so Moses went out to meet
his father-in-law bowed down and kissed
him and they asked each other about
their well-being and they went into the
tent and Moses told his father-in-law
all that the Lord had done to Pharaoh
and to the Egyptians for Israel's sake
all the hardship that had come upon them
on the way and how the Lord had
delivered them then Jethro rejoiced for
all the good which the Lord had done for
Israel whom he had delivered out of the
hand of the Egyptians and Jethro said
blessed be the Lord who has delivered
you out of the hand of the Egyptians and
out of the hand of Pharaoh and who has
delivered the people from under the hand
of the Egyptians
now I know that the Lord is greater than
all the gods for in the very thing in
which they behaved proudly he was above
him then Jethro Moses father-in-law took
a burnt offering and other sacrifices to
offer to God and Aaron came with all the
elders of Israel to eat bread with Moses
father-in-law before God and so it was
on the next day that Moses said to judge
the people and the people stood before
Moses from morning until evening
so when Moses father-in-law saw all that
he did for the people he said what is
this thing that you are doing for the
people why do you alone sit and all the
people stand before you from morning
until evening because the people come to
me
to inquire of God and they have a
difficulty they come to me and I judge
between one and another and I make known
the statutes of God and his laws the
thing that you do is not good
both you and these people who are with
you will surely wear yourselves out but
this thing is too much for you you are
not able to perform it by yourself
listen now to my voice I will give you
counsel and God will be with you stand
before God for the people so that you
may bring the difficulties to God and
you shall teach them the statutes and
the laws and show them the way in which
they must walk and the work they must do
moreover you shall select from all the
people able men such as fear God men of
truth hating covetousness and place such
over them to be rulers of thousands
rulers of hundreds rulers of fifties and
rulers of tens and let them judge the
people at all times then it will be that
every great matter they shall bring to
you but every small matter they
themselves shall judge so it will be
easier for you for they will bear the
burden with you if you do this thing and
God so commands you
you will be able to endure and all this
people will also go to their place in
peace
so Moses heeded the voice of his
father-in-law and did all that he had
said and Moses chose able men out of all
Israel and made them heads over the
people rulers of thousands rulers of
hundreds rulers of fifties and rulers of
tens so they judged the people at all
times the hard cases they brought to
Moses but they judged every small case
themselves
then Moses let his father-in-law depart
and he went his way to his own land